# Software properties（3C1I）
- Conformity (一致性)
- Invisibility (不可见性)
- Complexity (复杂性)
- Changeability (演化性)

# Software Products(两种软件类型的区别)
### Generic products (PC software such as Photoshop)
Developers make decisions
### Customized products (air traffic control software)
Customer make decisions

# Software Process Activities (SDVE) 
1. **Software specification**: where customers and engineers define the software that is to be produced and the constraints on its operation.
2. **Software development**: where the software is designed and programmed.
3. **Software validation**: where the software is checked to ensure that it is what the customer requires.
4. **Software evolution**: where the software is modified to reflect changing customer and market requirements.

# ISO 9126 Software Quality Characteristics (FRU-EMP)
| **Functionality**       | Are the required functions available in the software?        |
| :------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Reliability**     | How reliable is the software?                                |
| **Usability**       | Is the software easy to use?                                 |
| **Efficiency**      | How efficient is the software?                               |
| **Maintainability** | How easy is to modify the software?                          |
| **Portability**     | How easy is to transfer the software to another environment? |

# Agile Manifesto (敏捷宣言：IWCR)
- Individuals and interactions over processes and tools (个人和交互优于过程和工具)
- Working software over comprehensive documentation (可以工作的软件胜过全面的文档)
- Customer collaboration over contract negotiation (客户协作优先于合同谈判)
- Responding to change over following a plan (对变化做出反应由于跟随计划) 

# Scrum中三种角色：
- **Product Owner** 
The “What”: with a focus on value, time to market, return on investment.
- **Development Team** 
The "How”: focus on building something that is useable and potentially releasable.
- **Scrum Master** 
A facilitator who arranges daily meetings, tracks the backlog of work to be done, records decisions, measures progress against the backlog.

# Scrum Theory(四种会议)：
- Sprint Planning
- Daily Scrum
- Sprint Review
- Sprint Retrospective

# Requirements
## User/System requirements
### User requirements
- Statements in natural language plus diagrams of the services the system provides and its operational constraints
### System requirements
- A structured document setting out detailed descriptions of the system’s functions, services and operational constraints. Defines what should be implemented so may be part of the contract between the system buyer and the software developers.

## Functional/Non-functional Requirements
### Functional Requirements
- Describe functionality or system services.
- **Functional user requirements** may be high-level statements of what the system should do.
- **Functional system requirements** should describe the system services in detail.

### Non-functional Requirements
- Non-functional requirements usually specify or constrain characteristics of the system as a whole. (约束)
- Non-functional requirements **may be more critical** than functional requirements. If these are not met, the system may be useless.

# Requirements Validation - Checking（VCCRV）             
**Validity**（是否提供最有效的功能？）
- Does the system provide the functions which best support the customer’s needs?

**Consistency**（需求是否冲突？）
- Are there any requirements conflicts?

**Completeness**（所有需求都满足了吗？）
- Are all functions required by the customer included?

**Realism**（现有预算和技术可以实现需求吗？）
- Can the requirements be implemented given available budget and technology?

**Verifiability**（需求可以被验证吗？）
- Can the requirements be checked?

# Requirements Engineering Processes (三个主要活动)
Requirements engineering involves **three key activities**:
1. Discovering requirements by interacting with stakeholders **(elicitation and analysis)**
2. Converting these requirements into a standard form **(specification)**
3. Checking that the requirements actually define the system that the customer want **(validation)**

#  User stories 3 parts（3C）
- Card: a written description of the story used for planning and as a reminde
- Conversation: conversations about the story that serve to flesh out the details of the story
- Confirmation: tests that convey and document details and that can be used to determine when a story is complete

# Six attributes to create good stories（INVEST）:
- Independent
- Negotiable
- Valuable to users or customers
- Estimatable
- Small
- Testable

# 4+1 View Model
1. **Logical view:** which shows the key abstractions in the system as objects or object classes.
2. **Process view:** which shows how, at run-time, the system is composed of interacting processes.
3. **Development view:** which shows how the software is decomposed for development.
4. **Physical view:** which shows the system hardware and how software components are distributed across the processors in the system.
5. **Scenario view**

# Architectural Design Decisions (四个设计原则)
1. **Performance**
 Localize critical operations and minimize communications. Use large rather than fine-grain components.
2. **Security**
Use a layered architecture with critical assets in the inner layers.
3. **Availability**
Include redundant components and mechanisms for fault
tolerance.
4. **Maintainability**
Use fine-grain, replaceable components.

# Open Source Licensing
| **许可证**   | **是否强制开源衍生作品** | **是否允许闭源使用** | **适用场景**                             |
|--------------|--------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| **GPL**      | 是                       | 否                  | 如果你希望保护代码的开源性，并强制所有衍生作品也保持开源            |
| **LGPL**     | 仅库部分强制             | 是                  | 如果你的项目是一个库，想要广泛传播，但又希望允许商业闭源软件使用          |
| **BSD**      | 否                       | 是                  | 如果你想最大限度地推广你的代码，而不关心使用者是否开源          |

# Reuse Levels (四个等级要背)
## The abstraction level
- At this level, you don’t reuse software directly but use knowledge of successful abstractions in the design of your software.
## The object level (复用对象)
- At this level, you directly reuse objects from a library rather than writing the code yourself.
## The component level (复用的对象和对象类的集合)
- Components are collections of objects and object classes that you reuse in application systems.
## The system level (复用整个系统)
- At this level, you reuse entire application systems.

# Defect clustering vs Pesticide paradox
## Defect clustering (缺陷往往不均匀分)
- Small number of modules containing most of the defects.
## Pesticide paradox (杀虫剂悖论)
-If the same set of test cases are executed again and again over the period of time then these set of tests are not capable enough to identify new defects in the system.

# Development Testing （3种）
- Unit testing: where individual program units or object classes are tested.
- Integration testing: where individual software modules are combined and tested as a group.
- System testing: where a complete integrated system is tested to evaluate the system's compliance with its specified requirements.

# Software testing
- User testing
- Integration testing
- System testing

# Legacy system 4 strategy
- Scrap the system completely and modify business processes so that it is no longer required;
- Continue maintaining the system;
- Transform the system by re-engineering to improve its maintainability;
- Replace the system with a new system.